Establish a style guide (#197)
dockstore/dockstore-documentation: style-guide.md

* Keep in mind ~5% of the population is red-green colorblind
	* 	When color schemes convey non-essential meaning, avoid using color schemes that would be inaccessible to red-green colorblind users
	* 	When color schemes convey essential meaning (vital UI elements, etc) they should be functional in grayscale
* Do not use things that would be a nightmare for screen readers
 	* Avoid using non-ASCII symbols unless you are writing something meaningful in another language
 		* For example, do not use symbols from U+1D400 𝒔𝒖𝒄𝒉 𝒂𝒔 𝒕𝒉𝒆𝒔𝒆 as a replacement for ***actual bold and italic formatting***
		* Using actual bold and italics formatting is acceptable, but bear in mind screen readers may not declare something as being bold or italic

## Assumptions about a user's system
* If talking about a program that does not support certain operating systems, make it clear which systems are supported relatively early in documentation introducing that program
	* If possible, give an alternative for unsupported OSs
	* "The Dockstore CLI is only supported on Unix-like operating systems, including Linux and Mac. Windows users may wish to..."

> * Do not assume users are or are not using an HPC

Reviewer: Following on from comment, there's a lot of "do not" in here. 
For  hpc, what users know about hpc, Apple Silicon Mac, different versions of Bash, how programs function on HPC, etc. 

Might be simpler and shorter just to say what you "should" do, write instructions that note what OS and situation you're working in and note exceptions that you're aware of which may include (examples above)

Author: How about this? https://github.com/dockstore/dockstore-documentation/pull/197/commits/eaa9fc5d380d201b893958776de549945cd38171

Reviewer: I think so, I find that a little easier to follow

* Assume Linux users are using Ubuntu or know how to translate into their own distro
	* Exception: If directing very new users to install software via apt-get, consider mentioning that the instructions are specific to Ubuntu -- UCSC's linux lab for students runs on CentOS (which uses yum instead) so this is not a rare occurrence
* Keep in mind that some of our users are using Macs, so make a note about these situations in the text if they occur:
	* If there is an important functional difference between the Linux and the Mac version, such as xargs
	* If there is an important installation difference between the Linux and the Mac version, such as the installation of the Dockstore CLI
	* If something does not work/works differently on Apple Silicon Macs
	* If there is an important difference between the bash and zsh version of something
		* Do not assume that a Mac user is aware of whether they are using bash or zsh (the default changed in Catalina) or knows how to change between the two
		* Do not worry about other shells

## Coding in RST
* Write in RST, not markdown
* Use `.. comment` to write comments
* Use consistent indentation spacing within a single RST file

> * Do not break up body text with a newline every x characters

Reviewer 2: This is a "do not", but what would be the equivalent "do"? Keeping the body of text on one line?

Author: Essentially, yeah. Does https://github.com/dockstore/dockstore-documentation/pull/197/commits/4c347050dae47c30176c6b11c32d97245472b6e7 clear this up?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, looks good

* Use \`this style \<https://example.com\>_` of formatting external hyperlinks, as it is less error prone than the method involving setting the target in another paragraph
* Use headings in this way throughout the entire repository to avoid issues with embedding RST files into other RST files:

> `page title`  
> `==========`
> 
> `heading level 1`  
> `---------------`
>
> `heading level 2`  
> `~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~`
>
> `heading level 3`  
> `***************`
>
> `heading level 4`  
> `+++++++++++++++`
>
> `heading level 5`  
> `\``````````````
>
 
## International

> See also: https://developers.google.com/style/translation 

Reviewer: there are more links below, do these need to be link-ified?

Author: I was going to leave them as URLs but on second thoughts, making them clickable is probably a better idea. Adjusted in https://github.com/dockstore/dockstore-documentation/pull/197/commits/77f141cd066b23caecf30e1a7e14a0a6e303e5a8

* Avoid using idioms ("it's raining cats and dogs in Santa Cruz")
* Avoid using culturally-specific comparisons ("the button is green like a dollar bill")
* Try to use relatively simple English whenever possible
* Make sure programs/templates you are providing to the user have a way to handle non-ASCII names and names with apostrophes and hyphens

## Inclusion
See also: https://developers.google.com/style/inclusive-documentation

* Use gender-neutral language wherever possible (firefighter vs fireman)
* Use gender-neutral pronouns when referring to a hypothetical person ("they" instead of "he or she"), even if that requires changing a verb conjugation ("they **adjust** their settings" vs "he or she **adjusts** his or her settings")

> * Avoid terms like master/slave or blacklist/whitelist - use parent/child or denylist/allowlist

Reviewer 3: Avoid using socially-charged terms for technical concepts. For example, avoid terms such as blacklist, native feature, and first-class citizen. Instead, consider allow/denylist, built-in feature, core feature.

Reviewer: Hmmm, has "native" been cancelled? 
This is pretty common for AWS, etc. 
https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/opensource/cloud-native-computing/
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/architecture/cloud-native/definition

Reviewer 3: there's a bit of discussion on it here, generally, just try to avoid when you can: https://developers.google.com/style/inclusive-documentation

Author: How do you feel about https://github.com/dockstore/dockstore-documentation/pull/197/commits/0b734fd5b59310acc5ab97c08c71274ee74dbddd?

Reviewer: Sure

	* This will vary - a user seeking out best practices for a specific workflow language will know what a workflow language is
* Keep track of technical phrases and add them to the glossary if they are not already defined in the glossary
	* What is considered a "technical phrase" can be nebulous; use your best judgment
* Focus more on the how-to-do-things than what's happening under the hood

## Timeliness
* Follow these guidelines: https://developers.google.com/style/timeless-documentation
* In places where it is truly necessary to anchor something to a point in time, consider adding an RST comment reading `.. !time` nearby so that later maintainers of the documentation will be able to search all such instances and update them as necessary.

## Tone
Adapted from: https://developers.google.com/style/tone
* Humor in the form of slightly silly examples is okay, but generally keep things formal
	* "My Cool Workflow", etc is okay
* Never include any humor at the expense of a person, organization, or group of people
* You can make the case for a feature's existence, but avoid sounding too much like a salesperson

> * When telling someone to preform a task in a tutorial, use second-person implicit whenever it makes sense to do so -- e.g., write "Click this button to delete System32" instead of "You can click this button to delete System32"

Reviewer: it's been a while, what is the difference between implicit and explicit and is it worth picking one or the other?
At least some examples, possibly links to explain to start

Author: This implicit/explicit thing caused a lot of confusion, so the current version is more specific and links to an explanation.

# Dockstore Docs Style Guide

This style guide is based upon [Google's style guide](https://developers.google.com/style/) but contains several sections specific to Dockstore itself. It is not exhaustive nor authoritative; this document is designed as a quick reference guide.

## Accessibility
See also: https://developers.google.com/style/accessibility

* Always set descriptive alt text for images, except for decorative images
 	* If the image contains important text, repeat that text in the alt text
	 	* Although it is tricky due to how documentation websites tend to use images to clarify written text,  try to avoid having alt text repeat what is in the body text
	 	* Do not start with "image of" or "picture of" but do describe the type of image, like:
	 		* "Headshot of David Haussler smiling"
		 	* "Screenshot of the UI of dockstore.org/my-tools with the Refresh Organization button circled"

> 		 	* "Animation of a tabby cat jumping three feet into the air upon noticing a cucumber"

Reviewer 4: excellent example :)

* Keep in mind ~5% of the population is red-green colorblind
	* 	When color schemes convey non-essential meaning, avoid using color schemes that would be inaccessible to red-green colorblind users
	* 	When color schemes convey essential meaning (vital UI elements, etc) they should be functional in grayscale
* Do not use things that would be a nightmare for screen readers

>  	* Avoid using non-ASCII symbols 𝙨𝙪𝙘𝙝 𝙖𝙨 𝙩𝙝𝙞𝙨, 𝙬𝙝𝙞𝙘𝙝 𝙪𝙨𝙚𝙨 𝙘𝙤𝙙𝙚𝙥𝙤𝙞𝙣𝙩𝙨 𝙙𝙚𝙨𝙞𝙜𝙣𝙚𝙙 𝙛𝙤𝙧 𝙢𝙖𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙢𝙖𝙩𝙞𝙘𝙨, 𝙣𝙤𝙩 𝙩𝙚𝙭𝙩

Reviewer: such as what (might be import issue)

Author: Good idea, clarified in https://github.com/dockstore/dockstore-documentation/pull/197/commits/a99b247e8fcabda289aac18c811314482e02f06f

Reviewer 4: We can still use ye 𝖔𝖑𝖉𝖊 𝖒𝖊𝖙𝖆𝖑 𝖋𝖔𝖓𝖙 in PRs right?  lol

 		* For example, do not use symbols from U+1D400 𝒔𝒖𝒄𝒉 𝒂𝒔 𝒕𝒉𝒆𝒔𝒆 as a replacement for ***actual bold and italic formatting***
		* Using actual bold and italics formatting is acceptable, but bear in mind screen readers may not declare something as being bold or italic

## Assumptions about a user's system
* If talking about a program that does not support certain operating systems, make it clear which systems are supported relatively early in documentation introducing that program
	* If possible, give an alternative for unsupported OSs
	* "The Dockstore CLI is only supported on Unix-like operating systems, including Linux and Mac. Windows users may wish to..."

> * Keep in mind users might be using an HPC

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Keep in mind users might be working in a high performance computing (HPC) environment
```

	* Assume that if they are using an HPC, they at least know how to use their HPC's job submission system (SLURM, etc)
	* If working with/installing something requiring root permissions such as Docker, mention that root permission is needed once, then assume from that point forward that your HPC users have root privileges
	* However, do not assume that HPC users know how programs you introduce may work differently on an HPC

> 		* Example: Running a WDL on an HPC via Cromwell (ie via the Dockstore CLI) requires additional runtime arguments that a local user does not need to include in their WDL program, so make sure to either include those runtime arguments in your examples or tell HPC users what additional things they need

Reviewer 6: I think it should be `e.g.` (and if you think it should be `i.e.`, you need the periods).

Reviewer 4: https://www.dictionary.com/e/ie-vs-eg/

* Assume Linux users are using Ubuntu or know how to translate into their own distro

> 	* Exception: If directing very new users to install software via apt-get, consider mentioning that the instructions are specific to Ubuntu -- UCSC's linux lab for students runs on CentOS (which uses yum instead) so this is not a rare occurrence

Reviewer 4: Why assume Ubuntu?  (possibly a completely-valid assumption but I'm curious about the evidence)

Author: The dockstore quickstart for installing the Dockstore CLI explicitly says "Linux/Ubuntu" and calls apt-get, so I'm following its example.

* Keep in mind that some of our users are using Macs, so make a note about these situations in the text if they occur:
	* If there is an important functional difference between the Linux and the Mac version, such as xargs
	* If there is an important installation difference between the Linux and the Mac version, such as the installation of the Dockstore CLI
	* If something does not work/works differently on Apple Silicon Macs
	* If there is an important difference between the bash and zsh version of something
		* Do not assume that a Mac user is aware of whether they are using bash or zsh (the default changed in Catalina) or knows how to change between the two
		* Do not worry about other shells

## Coding in RST
* Write in RST, not markdown
* Use `.. comment` to write comments
* Use consistent indentation spacing within a single RST file
* Do not break up body text with a newline every x characters

> * Use use \`this style \<https://example.com\>_` of formatting external hyperlinks, as it is less error prone than the method involving setting the target in another paragraph

Reviewer 6: Use use

* Use headings in this way throughout the entire repository to avoid issues with embedding RST files into other RST files:

> `page title`  
> `==========`
> 
> `heading level 1`  
> `---------------`
>
> `heading level 2`  
> `~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~`
>
> `heading level 3`  
> `***************`
>
> `heading level 4`  
> `+++++++++++++++`
>
> `heading level 5`  
> `\``````````````
>
 
## International
See also: https://developers.google.com/style/translation 

* Avoid using idioms ("it's raining cats and dogs in Santa Cruz")
* Avoid using culturally-specific comparisons ("the button is green like a dollar bill")
* Try to use relatively simple English whenever possible

> * Make sure programs/templates you are providing to the user have a way to handle non-ASCII names, family-name-first ordering, and names with apostrophes and hyphens

Reviewer 6: I don't understand what you mean by "family-name-first ordering" in this context.

Author: I mean what is often called "Eastern name order." For example, the current PM of Japan inherited the name Kishida from his father, in the same way I inherited the name O'Farrell from my father. The Wikipedia article about the PM of Japan is titled Fumio Kishida in English because most English-speakers refer to people by their personal name (Fumio/Ash) first and their family name (Kishida/O'Farrell) last. But his article in Japanese would be titled 岸田 文雄, which is Kishida Fumio, because in Japan people's family names come first.

Taking a step back and talking about the who bullet point: I was basically thinking we should avoid examples that break upon apostrophes since that is a thing that happens to me every so often, and when thinking about other things that might break, I maybe got a little carried away by also including naming order. Naming order is admittedly unlikely to come up in documentation -- honestly, this line might fit better in a style guide for user-facing code then docs -- but there is a chance of confusion if our docs use words like "first name" and "last name" instead of "given/personal name" and "family name."

Author: As an example of what I mean r/e apostrophe examples:

We shouldn't have something like this as an example for beginning users:
`string wdl_name_to_welcome = 'Julian Lucas'`

Because if you have a name like mine, things will break, and if you are a beginning user you may not understand why.
`string wdl_name_to_welcome = 'Ash O'Farrell'`

Instead, by following the style guide r/e names with apostrophes and hyphens, we'd write:
`string wdl_name_to_welcome = "Julian Lucas"`

Reviewer 6: I am somewhat familiar with family name ordering differences in different parts of the world, but I was confused how this text applies to Dockstore documentation guidelines. Unless we have sample programs sorting names, I still don't see the need for "family-first ordering".

On using the term "family name" instead of "last name", makes sense in general, and I guess it doesn't hurt, but I don't think the doc is using any of those terms, and it's unlikely it will.

Author: Previously I was thinking how we handle the name field in dockstore.yml files may apply to this, but that isn't really a documentation thing. I'll take out the name ordering part then.

	* This will vary - a user seeking out best practices for a specific workflow language will know what a workflow language is
* Keep track of technical phrases and add them to the glossary if they are not already defined in the glossary
	* What is considered a "technical phrase" can be nebulous; use your best judgment
* Focus more on the how-to-do-things than what's happening under the hood

## Timeliness
* Follow these guidelines: https://developers.google.com/style/timeless-documentation
* In places where it is truly necessary to anchor something to a point in time, consider adding an RST comment reading `.. !time` nearby so that later maintainers of the documentation will be able to search all such instances and update them as necessary.

## Tone
Adapted from: https://developers.google.com/style/tone
* Humor in the form of slightly silly examples is okay, but generally keep things formal
	* "My Cool Workflow", etc is okay
* Never include any humor at the expense of a person, organization, or group of people
* You can make the case for a feature's existence, but avoid sounding too much like a salesperson

> * When describing someone doing a task, use second-person implicit whenever it makes sense to do so, but try to stick to active voice

Reviewer 4: Did we decide on second-person implicit as the preferred point-of-view everywhere?  Is it ok to use second-person explicit when you're informing someone of their options?  Like:
You can do X, perform Y, or foo Z.

Author: We decided on second-person, but the implicit part is a new proposal I'm making. But to be honest, I keep going back and forth on it, so I'm glad you brought this up.

Basically, I think something like
> Click this button to delete System32.
is better than 
> You can click this button to delete System32.
or the passive voice
>The button can be clicked to delete System32.

...but that's really only appropriate for tutorials, which isn't the only form of documentation out there. As you pointed out, leaving the subject out of "can do X, perform Y, or foo Z" would be really awkward.

Reviewer 4: I don't have strong feelings about this, but I do like recommending second-person point-of-view.  And definitely, second-person implicit works in many situations, but maybe there's certain contexts in which second-person explicit sounds more natural?

That said, documentation standards are one of those topics for which it's hard to garner 100% consensus, like spaces-vs-tabs.  If you've come up with with a reasonable set of recommendations that most of the team is happy with, and no one vehemently objects, success!

Reviewer: FYI, it is spaces :wink:

Author: Don't mind me, I'm simply trying to combat misinformation...
<img width="798" alt="Screen Shot 2022-05-02 at 12 47 10 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/27784612/166315129-9ccc53ac-89ed-4c72-9c38-fcc3b4392bfa.png">
